so Jacob went on his way and the angels
so Jacob went on his way and the angels of God met him when Jacob saw them he
of God met him when Jacob saw them he
of God met him when Jacob saw them he said this is God's camp and he called
said this is God's camp and he called
said this is God's camp and he called the name of that place maiya name then
the name of that place maiya name then
the name of that place maiya name then Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau
Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau
Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother in the land of Seir the
his brother in the land of Seir the
his brother in the land of Seir the country of Edom and he commanded them
country of Edom and he commanded them
country of Edom and he commanded them speak thus to my lord Esau thus your
speak thus to my lord Esau thus your
speak thus to my lord Esau thus your servant Jacob says I have dwelt with
servant Jacob says I have dwelt with
servant Jacob says I have dwelt with Laban and stayed there until now I have
Laban and stayed there until now I have
Laban and stayed there until now I have oxen donkeys flocks and male and female
oxen donkeys flocks and male and female
oxen donkeys flocks and male and female servants and I have sent to tell my Lord
servants and I have sent to tell my Lord
servants and I have sent to tell my Lord that I may find favor in your sight
we came to your brother Esau and he also
we came to your brother Esau and he also is coming to meet you and 400 men are
is coming to meet you and 400 men are
is coming to meet you and 400 men are with him so Jacob was greatly afraid and
with him so Jacob was greatly afraid and
with him so Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed and he divided the people
distressed and he divided the people
distressed and he divided the people that were with him and the flocks and
that were with him and the flocks and
that were with him and the flocks and herds and camels into two companies if
herds and camels into two companies if
herds and camels into two companies if Esau comes to the one company and
Esau comes to the one company and
Esau comes to the one company and attacks it than the other company which
attacks it than the other company which
attacks it than the other company which is left will escape oh god of my father
is left will escape oh god of my father
is left will escape oh god of my father Abraham and god of my father Isaac the
Abraham and god of my father Isaac the
Abraham and god of my father Isaac the Lord who said to me return to your
Lord who said to me return to your
Lord who said to me return to your country and to your family and I will
country and to your family and I will
country and to your family and I will deal well with you I am not worthy of
deal well with you I am not worthy of
deal well with you I am not worthy of the least of all the mercies and of all
the least of all the mercies and of all
the least of all the mercies and of all the truth which you have shown your
the truth which you have shown your
the truth which you have shown your servant for I crossed over this Jordan
servant for I crossed over this Jordan
servant for I crossed over this Jordan with my staff and now I have become two
with my staff and now I have become two
with my staff and now I have become two companies deliver me I pray from the
companies deliver me I pray from the
companies deliver me I pray from the hand of my brother from the hand of Esau
hand of my brother from the hand of Esau
hand of my brother from the hand of Esau for I fear him lest he come and attack
for I fear him lest he come and attack
for I fear him lest he come and attack me the mother with the children for you
me the mother with the children for you
me the mother with the children for you said I will surely treat you well and
said I will surely treat you well and
said I will surely treat you well and make your descendants as the sand of the
make your descendants as the sand of the
make your descendants as the sand of the sea which cannot be numbered for
sea which cannot be numbered for
sea which cannot be numbered for multitude so he lodged there that same
multitude so he lodged there that same
multitude so he lodged there that same night and took what came to his hand as
night and took what came to his hand as
night and took what came to his hand as a present for Esau his brother
a present for Esau his brother
a present for Esau his brother two hundred female goats and twenty male
two hundred female goats and twenty male
two hundred female goats and twenty male goats two hundred ewes and twenty Rams
goats two hundred ewes and twenty Rams
goats two hundred ewes and twenty Rams thirty milk camels were their coats
thirty milk camels were their coats
thirty milk camels were their coats forty cows and ten bulls twenty female
forty cows and ten bulls twenty female
forty cows and ten bulls twenty female donkeys and ten folds then he delivered
donkeys and ten folds then he delivered
donkeys and ten folds then he delivered them to the hand of his servants every
them to the hand of his servants every
them to the hand of his servants every drove by itself and said to his servants
drove by itself and said to his servants
drove by itself and said to his servants pass over before me and put some
pass over before me and put some
pass over before me and put some distance between successive droves and
distance between successive droves and
distance between successive droves and he commanded the first one when II saw
he commanded the first one when II saw
he commanded the first one when II saw my brother meets you and asks you saying
my brother meets you and asks you saying
my brother meets you and asks you saying to whom do you belong and where are you
to whom do you belong and where are you
to whom do you belong and where are you going
going
going whose are these in front of you then you
whose are these in front of you then you
whose are these in front of you then you shall say they are your servant Jacobs
shall say they are your servant Jacobs
shall say they are your servant Jacobs it is a present sent to my lord Esau and
it is a present sent to my lord Esau and
it is a present sent to my lord Esau and behold he also is behind us
behold he also is behind us
behold he also is behind us so he commanded the second the third and
so he commanded the second the third and
so he commanded the second the third and all who followed the droves in this
all who followed the droves in this
all who followed the droves in this manner you shall speak to Esau when you
manner you shall speak to Esau when you
manner you shall speak to Esau when you find him and also say behold your
find him and also say behold your
find him and also say behold your servant Jacob is behind us I will
servant Jacob is behind us I will
servant Jacob is behind us I will appease him with the present that goes
appease him with the present that goes
appease him with the present that goes before me and afterward I will see his
before me and afterward I will see his
before me and afterward I will see his face perhaps he will accept me so the
face perhaps he will accept me so the
face perhaps he will accept me so the present went on over before him
present went on over before him
present went on over before him but he himself lodged that night in the
but he himself lodged that night in the
but he himself lodged that night in the camp and he arose that night and took
camp and he arose that night and took
camp and he arose that night and took his two wives his two female servants
his two wives his two female servants
his two wives his two female servants and his eleven sons and crossed over the
and his eleven sons and crossed over the
and his eleven sons and crossed over the ford of jeddak he took them sent them
ford of jeddak he took them sent them
ford of jeddak he took them sent them over the brook and sent over what he had
then Jacob was left alone and a man
then Jacob was left alone and a man wrestled with him until the breaking of
wrestled with him until the breaking of
wrestled with him until the breaking of day when he drove it he did not prevail
day when he drove it he did not prevail
day when he drove it he did not prevail against me he touched the socket of his
against me he touched the socket of his
against me he touched the socket of his hip and the socket of Jacob's hip was
hip and the socket of Jacob's hip was
hip and the socket of Jacob's hip was out of and he said let me go for the day
out of and he said let me go for the day
out of and he said let me go for the day breaks I will not let you go unless you
breaks I will not let you go unless you
breaks I will not let you go unless you bless me what is your name
bless me what is your name
bless me what is your name Jacob your name shall no longer be
Jacob your name shall no longer be
Jacob your name shall no longer be called Jacob but Israel for you have
called Jacob but Israel for you have
called Jacob but Israel for you have struggled with God and with men and have
struggled with God and with men and have
struggled with God and with men and have prevailed
tell me your name my prey
tell me your name my prey why is it did you ask about my name and
why is it did you ask about my name and
why is it did you ask about my name and he blessed him there so Jacob called the
he blessed him there so Jacob called the
he blessed him there so Jacob called the name of the place Peniel for I have seen
name of the place Peniel for I have seen
name of the place Peniel for I have seen God face to face that my life is
God face to face that my life is
God face to face that my life is preserved just as he crossed over Penuel
preserved just as he crossed over Penuel
preserved just as he crossed over Penuel the Sun rose on him and he limped on his
the Sun rose on him and he limped on his
the Sun rose on him and he limped on his hip therefore to this day the children
hip therefore to this day the children
hip therefore to this day the children of Israel do not eat the muscle that
of Israel do not eat the muscle that
of Israel do not eat the muscle that shrank which is on the hip socket
shrank which is on the hip socket
shrank which is on the hip socket because he touched the socket of Jacob's
because he touched the socket of Jacob's
because he touched the socket of Jacob's hip in the muscle the track
hip in the muscle the track
hip in the muscle the track [Music]